---
layout: post
title: "Released Selenide 5.3.1"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "Maven ate screenshots"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hi all!

There was a sensation:  

**The presentation of the new iPhone went unnoticed!**

Because we released Selenide 5.3.1. With improved shots as well. :)

We fixed only one problem in this version, but what problem is it! 

<br/>

# Maven, where are my screenshots?

Recently we discovered that users of Maven and latest `maven-surefire-plugin:2.22.2` were deprived of one of the most important selenide features: 
screenshot was not added to the error report.

That was unexpected!

**How did you even live without it, poor fellows?**

_Probably that's why you think you need BDD, Serenity and Allure?_ Probably you don't need. :)

Read on.

<br/>

# See the difference

That's how error report looks in Maven and latest `maven-surefire-plugin:2.22.2`:

```java
com.codeborne.selenide.ex.ListSizeMismatch: 
: expected: = 11, actual: 0, collection: .results
Elements: []
	at org.selenide.GoogleTest.openGoogle(GoogleTest.java:42)
```

You don't see a screenshot. Bad luck. 

And this is how error report looks in Gradle, Ant, any IDE and default `maven-surefire-plugin:2.12.4`:

```java
List size mismatch. Expected: = 11, actual: 0, collection: .results
Elements: []
Screenshot: file:/Users/andrei/projects/selenide-examples/sandbox-selenide-junit5/build/reports/tests/1567803355181.0.png
Page source: file:/Users/andrei/projects/selenide-examples/sandbox-selenide-junit5/build/reports/tests/1567803355181.0.html
Timeout: 4 s.
	at org.selenide.GoogleTest.openGoogle(GoogleTest.java:42)
```

Now you see a screenshot in case of test failure. It's enough to investigate the reason of test failure.
You just don't need any "nice" reports, BDD, report portals etc.  

_Now we are talking!_

<br/>


# Investigation

But why it happened? 

1. In Java, there is a class `Throwable` which is a parent of all errors and exceptions.
2. It has 2 important methods: `getMessage()` and `toString()`. 
3. by default `toString()` = `class name` + `getMessage()`

For example, the following code

```java
    Throwable e = new IllegalArgumentException("nope");
    System.out.println(e.getMessage());
    System.out.println(e.toString());
```

prints out:

```java
    nope
    java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: nope
```

Initially, Selenide added screenshot name in method `UIAssertionError.toString()`.
And it worked fine in Gradle, Ant, all IDEs. And in Maven too - in case of default `maven-surefire-plugin` version. 

<br/>

### So what was updated in Maven?

There are funny guys working on Maven.
1. Maven has 2 plugins for tests, not one.
2. These plugins are named "surefire", not "test" (which would be intuitive and clear for everyone)
3. The latest Maven 3.6.2 by default uses _different versions_ of those plugins:
* `maven-surefire-plugin:2.12.4` - **7 years old** (e.g. doesn't support Java 11)
* and _unexpectedly_ <br/>`maven-surefire-report-plugin:3.0.0-M3` - **beta version**, not ready for production 

<br/>

Now, if you upgrade to latest `maven-surefire-plugin` in your pom.xml:

```xml
      <plugin>
        <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
        <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>2.22.2</version>
      </plugin>
```

test reports start changing. Instead of `e.toString()` it now uses `class name + getMessage()`. 
That's why screenshots are not appended to error report anymore.  

<br/>

# How we fixed it?

Simple. We now add screenshot in method `e.getMessage()` instead of `e.toString()`. 
Sound simple, but we had to refactor all Selenide exceptions and fix many tests. 

Probably something went wrong, so feel free to **file issues**, if you wish some error messages to be improved!

All the background and code modifications can be found here:
* [issue 234](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/234)
* [PR 972](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/972)

<br/>

## News

Selenide goes over the world!

* Look, what a [great video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9WTRTOTOsc) created Martin Škarbala from Slovakia.
In just a 1.5 minutes he demonstrates benefits of Selenide, and how much of boilerplate code you can delete after migration to Selenide. 

<br/>

## Conferences

* September, 20-21 - I will give two talks at [QA Fest](http://qafest.com/en/) conference - Kyiv, Ukraine

<br>

[Andrei Solntsev](http://asolntsev.github.io/)

selenide.org
