---
layout: post
title: "Released Selenide 7.9.3"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "Absolutely crazy"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello!

Before the summer begins, it's a good moment to upgrade to [Selenide 7.9.3](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/milestone/225?closed=1).

* [Updated Selenium from 4.32.0 to 4.33.0](#update-to-selenium-4.33.0)
* [Click holding left keys](#click-holding-left-keys)
* [Bug with focus in `$.setValue`](#fix-bug-with-focus-in-set-value)
* [Fixed lazy initialisation of page objects](#fix-page-object-initialization-without-webdriver)
* [Check "texts in any order" in `FULL_TEXT` mode](#fix-condition-texts-in-any-order)

<br>

### Updated Selenium from 4.32.0 to 4.33.0 {#update-to-selenium-4.33.0}
And bumped CDP version from v136 to v137. _It's crazy how cool this is!_

See [PR 3034](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3034)

<br>

### Click holding left keys {#click-holding-left-keys}

[Recently](/2025/04/19/selenide-7.9.0/#click-holding-keys) we implemented JS click while holding keys `ALT`, `CTRL`, `SHIFT` or `META`.

But we forgot about keys `LEFT_ALT`, `LEFT_CONTROL`, `LEFT_SHIFT`. _It's crazy how we missed them?_

Now JS click will work with left keys as well:

```java
$("#btn").click(using(JS)
  .holdingKeys(LEFT_CONTROL, LEFT_SHIFT, LEFT_ALT));
```

See [issue 2763](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/2763) and [PR 3030](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3030).

<br>

### Fixed bug with focus in `$.setValue` {#fix-bug-with-focus-in-set-value}

As you know, method `$.setValue()` can work either using `sendKeys`, or using JavaScript. 
The last method can speed uo your tests and improve stability. 

But there was one trick with focus. :) 

### Focus
When you call method `$.setValue(JS)` on some element like `<input>` then Selenide performs the following steps:
1. Remove focus from the previous active element;
2. Set focus to our desired element `<input>`
3. Enter the value

### Problem
If our desired element was _already focused_ then steps #1 and #2 removed and re-set the focus for the same element.
And everything would be fine, but there are elements that ... disappear when they lose the focus.  
And they disappeared after the first step.
And the second step failed because `<input>` was not found anymore.
_It's crazy how this can even be [debugged](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TvVCxmb9ss&ab_channel=EpicHey)?_

### Solution
Now method `$.setValue(JS)` will be a little smarter and will not play with the focus if the desired element is already focused. 

See [PR 3035](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3035).

<br>


### Fixed lazy initialisation of page objects {#fix-page-object-initialization-without-webdriver}

You may not know, but page objects in Selenide are lazy. 
You can create an instance of page object BEFORE any browsers are opened. 
No web elements will be searched anywhere (until you try to use them).

A problem has been discovered: if a page object has a field of the type `List<WebElement>` (and the browser is not open yet),
then it crashes with an error like "browser is not opened yet". _It's crazy how no one has complained about this yet?_


Now page objects with fields of type `List<WebElement>` will also be lazy-initialized. 

> We recommend to use type `ElementsCollection` instead of `List<WebElement>`.

See [PR 3036](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3036).

<br>

### Fixed check "texts in any order" in `FULL_TEXT` mode {#fix-condition-texts-in-any-order}

Selenide has a setting `FULL_TEXT` which you all should turn on. :)
But it turned out a couple of checks didn't take this setting into account... 

In Selenide 7.9.1 we [fixed method](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3011) 
`texts`, but forgot about `textsInAnyOrder`.

Now `textsInAnyOrder` will also work correctly with enabled setting `FULL_TEXT`:

```java
  Configuration.textCheck = FULL_TEXT;
  $$(".element").shouldHave(texts("sham", "", "delegation"));
  $$(".element").shouldHave(textsInAnyOrder("delegation", "", "sham"));
```

See [PR 3037](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3037).

> NB! We recommend to set it in all your projects:
>
> [`Configuration.textCheck = FULL_TEXT`](/2022/08/04/selenide-6.7.0/#holy-whole-string);
>
> In Selenide 8.0.0 it will be enabled by default.

<br>


What many developers don’t realize is that if it weren’t for tests, lots of really bad things would have already 
happened to their projects, and I mean REALLY BAD.

Don't play with fire, write tests.

<br>


[Andrei Solntsev](http://asolntsev.github.io/)

selenide.org
