---
slug: "selenide-7.15.0"
date: 2026-03-11
title: "Released Selenide 7.15.0"
description: ""
category:
headerText: "Java Roar"
tags: []
---

Good night!

We've got release [Selenide 7.15.0](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/milestone/237?closed=1)!

> Just minutes ago we launched Operation Java’s Roar.  
> A massive new release of our Java library.  
> Nobody builds Java libraries like we do. Nobody.  
> We fixed the bugs. We destroyed the slow code. Completely obliterated it.  
> And the performance? Tremendous performance. The best performance you’ve ever seen.    

* [Download file without content](#skip-downloading-file-content)
* [Chrome driver in "remote debugger" mode](#chrome-driver-in-remote-debugger-mode)
* [Screenshots in Chrome with disabled CDP](#take-screenshot-even-if-cdp-is-disabled)
* [Limit execution time of all commands](#limit-execution-time-of-all-commands)
* [Video size for resizing browser](#fix-video-size-when-browser-size-has-been-changing)
* ["OR" condition for disappeared elements](#or-condition-for-missing-elements)
* [Update Selenium from 4.40.0 to 4.41.0](#update-to-selenium-4.41.0)
* [Links](#links)

<br>

### Download file without content {#skip-downloading-file-content}

Selenide has method `$.download()` allowing to download a file from a test.  
Usually it's useful to verify the name and content of the downloaded file. Or at least its format (pdf/xls/csv/...).

But sometimes these files can be large, and we just want to check that the downloading works without errors - 
and not to waste time and disk space. Now it's possible to download the file without content:

```java
File distribution = $.download(file().withoutContent());
assertThat(distribution).hasExtensions("zip");
```

This is especially relevant when the browser is not running locally, but on some kind of grid.
Recalling the problem with [downloading large files from Grid](/2025/12/14/selenide-7.13.0/#improve-file-downloading-from-grid)?

P.S. But this is a rare occurrence. 
In fact, I'd advise against downloading very large files during testing. 
And set up your testing environment so that everything downloads quickly.
And set up CI so that artifacts from previous builds are cleaned up promptly and don't clog up your disk.

See [PR 3264](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3264).

<br>


### Chrome driver in "remote debugger" mode {#chrome-driver-in-remote-debugger-mode}

It turned out that Selenide was not launching Chrome correctly if you added the `debuggerAddress` option to it:

```java
ChromeOptions options = new ChromeOptions();
options.setExperimentalOption("debuggerAddress", "127.0.0.1:9222");
```

Now it starts without problems.

This is actually an interesting option: it tells the webdriver not to launch a new browser, but to connect to an already running browser.
I've never used this before ¯¯\\_(ツ)_/¯¯

See [issue 3265](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/3265) and [PR 3266](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3266).

<br>

### Screenshots in Chrome with disabled CDP {#take-screenshot-even-if-cdp-is-disabled}

Starting from Chrome 144, CDP is disabled by default. While Selenide uses CDP to take screenshots and record videos - and fails.
Now, if CDP is disabled, Selenide will fall back to the old standard webdriver method `getScreenshotAs`.

See [issue 3243](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/3243) and [PR 3245](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3245).

<br>


### Limit execution time of all commands {#limit-execution-time-of-all-commands}

When downloading large files from Grid, such a command could hang:
```java
File distribution = $.download(); // from Grid with some networking issues
```

In case of some unexpected problems with networks etc.

The problem is that Selenide has a timeout for every command, but it was only applied during a retry.
However, if the very first attempt froze, the timeout wasn't forced.

Now Selenide will forcibly interrupt the execution of any command if it lasts longer than N+5 seconds (5 - just in case).

```java
$.shouldBe(visible);  // Will be interrupted after 4+5 seconds
$.shouldBe(visible, Duration.ofSeconds(50));  // Will be interrupted after 50+5 seconds
$.download(file().withTimeout(ofMinutes(3)));  // Will be interrupted after 3 minutes and 5 seconds
```
See [issue 3251](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/3251) and [PR 3263](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3263).

<br>

**UPD** In Selenide 7.15.1, this global timeout was reverted. In some corner cases, it broke things.  
In the end, we just set timeout when downloading large files from clouds.

<br>


### Video size for resizing browser {#fix-video-size-when-browser-size-has-been-changing}

You already know about our [video recorder](/2024/11/24/selenide-7.6.0/#video-recorder).
For simplicity, it assumed from the very beginning that the browser size would not change during the test.

Now we have improved the algorithm.

If the browser size changes during the test (meaning we're taking a bunch of screenshots of different sizes), then
Selenide will now generate the video with the dimensions of the largest screenshot, so they all fit in the video.

See [PR 3262](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3262).

<br>


### "OR" condition for disappeared elements {#or-condition-for-missing-elements}

Selenide has an 'or' condition, which allows you to test one of two conditions.
And there was a logical error in the case when the web element existed but disappeared. :)

For example, such a standard check for a missing element works:

```java
$("#missing").should(disappear);
```

But such `or` check - failed:
```java
$("#missing").should(disappear.or(text("I don't exist")));
```

This line threw `Element not found {#missing}` (and this is illogical).  
Now it will work without errors.

See [issue 3255](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/issues/3255) and [PR 3256](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3256).

> Generally speaking, I don't recommend using 'or' in tests.
> After all, the test needs to know exactly how the application is expected to behave.

<br>

### Update Selenium from 4.40.0 to 4.41.0 {#update-to-selenium-4.41.0}
And bumped the CDP version from v144 to v145.

See [Selenium changelog](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/blob/6e3625b180bd8/java/CHANGELOG) 
and [PR 3252](https://github.com/selenide/selenide/pull/3252). 

<br>

### Update Selenium from 4.40.0 to 4.41.0 {#links}
* post [UI Automation with Selenide](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/ui-automation-selenide-jithin-somaraj-xqfhc/) in Jithin Somaraj blog
* post [Automating UI tests: Selenide & Java with Optimizely demo](https://careers.firstlinesoftware.com/spotlights/ui-test-automation-with-selenide-and-java-for-optimizely-example) in First Line Software blog

<br>
<br>


[Andrei Solntsev](http://asolntsev.github.io/)

selenide.org
